Hello and welcome to this
year's Image Kit session.
This session is called
actually Image Capture,
Manipulation, and Display with Image Kit.
And in a bit you'll see why.
I'm Werner Neubrand and I'm part
of the Graphics and Imaging group.
Image Kit.
Image Kit was a new framework that
we introduced with Mac OS X Leopard.
It's actually dealing with images.
So it's a framework,
part of Quartz frameworks
of the umbrella.
Frameworks lives at the same place where
PDFKit lives and deals with images.
It has several components
and the most adopted,
most used is really
the image browser view.
The image browser view is a
highly optimized view that deals
with a large number of images and
displays those in a grid view.
It's optimized because it's very fast.
It's optimized because it
takes very little memory.
So, internal caching, nice rendering,
fast display.
brings up your thumbnails,
your images on the screen,
and you can have subtitles and more.
The next component of
Image Kit is the picture taker.
You all see the picture
taker if you have a laptop,
a MacBook, MacBook Pro,
and you install it in your system.
Because then the setup assistant at the
end will allow you to take a picture,
If you use Address Book, you will see it.
iChat is adopting that.
So it's a common UI that works with
the built-in iSight or attached iSight,
as you will see in a bit.
And yeah,
nice way to get images from your
iSight into your application.
The next component is the image view.
Again,
you could use like an NS image view,
but we try to do a few things in
the IK image view that NS image
view does not handle directly
or not handle the same way.
For example,
we do take care automatically of
embedded EXIF information to correctly
rotate an image when you load that.
We do take care of
like non-square pixels,
so if you have a resolution,
different DPIs for width and height.
And we also try to work with very
large images by using a sub-sampling
algorithm to initially bring up
the images very quickly and then
load the image in higher resolution
after the initial display is up.
Next component is the Image Edit Panel.
The Image Edit Panel allows you,
for example,
to work directly with an IK image view,
to display a set of CI filters
and manipulate those and you will
see the result in the image view.
It also has a tab where you basically
bring up separate previews of thumbnails
where a filter is already applied
and you can just choose the one that
you want to apply to your main image.
And lastly, it has an information pane,
an information tab where
you get some metadata,
including very nice representation of
GPS metadata directly from the image
that you may have in the main display.
The next component is the slideshow.
Again,
a kind of easy way to display images
full screen with nice transitions,
index mode.
And, for example,
if you have iPhoto installed,
it allows you to export individual images
directly to your iPhoto application.
So last year, for the Image Kit session,
we were facing an
iPhoto coding challenge.
Which means, in that session,
we tried to create an application
in several steps that would
kind of cover the functionality
of an iPhoto application.
Which means,
you would be able to browse images.
Obviously,
this is the IK image browser view.
We would be able to import,
through the image picker,
import images from an eyesight.
We want to view a selected
image in a large image view.
We want to edit it.
We want to save it.
By the way, that's another component
of the Image Kit framework,
an attach or like an add-on to
the save panel to have a kind
of common UI to select various
options for different file formats.
And at the end we want to present
the result in the slideshow.
So the idea was to have an iPhoto
application in six easy steps.
And actually I want to show you
that application because we will
continue with that application and
enhance that during this session.
So this is the application
up and running.
You see we have the image browser view.
And very nicely I can resize
and you see it's really fast.
"Resize and when I let loose on
the mouse button then it fetches
the full resolution of the image.
So I can select an image here,
zoom in and it's very fast."
So the image browser view
allows you also to reorder,
and it does that with
very nice animations.
So I can select three, move them here,
see very nicely, reorder.
Or for example, I could select multiple
ones and get rid of those.
So now we have only images up.
Then, in this application,
we want to make use of the eyesight.
So we bring up the image picker view.
We will see that.
Go in and add an effect to it.
And set it and we'll see it's important.
Now, when a selection changes
in the image browser view,
we want to display it
in the main image view.
Well, let's do that.
Let's see.
We can do that very easily.
And if we select one image,
double click on it,
then we get the image edit panel.
Where we can adjust, for example,
convert it to a sepia or a white image.
We can select different effects.
And we can get some details,
so for example, the X and Y dimension,
we get the orientation,
whether it's rotated,
what software created and so on.
and you see the title of that
image is Golden Palace JPEG.
So it's a JPEG image,
but we want to save it as, for example,
as a TIFF file.
It's very easy to do because we
bring up our kind of common UI,
select TIFF, and then we could specify,
for example, for the compression.
We could save it as GIF,
while no options there.
JPEG, we can specify the quality.
So let's go ahead and actually
save it as a TIFF file.
And it already exists,
so let's replace it.
And what should happen is, well,
we just got a new TIP file.
So the next step, very quickly going
through that application,
is presenting it.
So we have the slideshow
mode where we would just go
I'm on play mode.
Oh, I'm on the last image,
so let's pick--
"I can go to the next one or in play
I can transition to the next image
and go through all the images."
So that's the application.
And let's quickly look
at the code for this.
So we don't want to
go through everything,
but just look at the main classes.
We do have a controller,
and the controller has a reference to
an image browser view and an image view.
And all our images are
kept in a mutable array.
The images.
Now the controller acts as
an image browser data source.
So the concept is very simple.
It's very similar
actually to NS table view.
So you have a data source and as data
source you have to tell the object,
the image browser view,
how many items do I have
and give me item at index.
So in our case, it's very simple.
Our image array is
just an array of items.
And the number of items that we want
to display on that image browser view
was just the count of that array.
And if we want to get it to
an item at a given index,
it's very simple because
it's in a mutable array.
It's just objected index.
What's different from like a
regular table view data source
is we are not returning the item,
the object to display directly.
We return an item that has to
implement a couple of methods.
And the couple of methods are those that
are in the item data source protocol.
So we need a representation
and that could be one of many.
It could be a path, it could be URL,
it could be an NS image, it could be a
Yeah, a lot of things.
And we need a unique ID.
Because internally,
the image browser view tries
to optimize the reloading,
refetching.
If you return an ID and
you modify the image,
then you have to somehow update that ID.
Otherwise, the browser view would not
try to refetch the data.
And then, optionally,
we would have a title, because we want to
display the title there.
So to set up the browser,
all we do is we create
initially our image array.
And we add images from a given directory.
Whenever you install Mac OS X system,
then you will get a couple of
images as desktop pictures,
and that's basically
what we are pointing to.
So it's very simple.
In the add images from directory,
so we get in,
get passed in a path to a directory.
And we get the content at this path.
That gives us an array with file
names that are within that directory.
And all we have to do
is take the given path,
append that individual file name to it,
and add the image to our array.
Look at that, very quickly.
It's very simple.
All we do is basically we filter out
everything that starts with a dot.
So .ds store or something like
that is treated as a hidden file,
and we don't want to add that.
Other than that,
all we do is we create an image object.
Set the path,
add that image object to the images and
We have that wrapped in "will
change" and "did change" value
for key to be binding friendly.
Actually,
you can download the code for these
six steps and you will be surprised how
little code it actually is because a
lot of things are done through bindings.
So it's actually very easy to use.
So that was this step.
And now if you can get
back to the presentation.
So we had the iPhoto in six easy steps.
We got a couple of requests
after last year's WWDC.
And a lot of people were asking, well,
it's great to have this
image browser view,
but I want to have on the images,
I want to have something custom.
I would have a label.
Or I don't like the background,
because the background in my
application is completely different.
So how can I customize that?
So that was really number one request.
And the other request was like,
I have another device.
I don't have an eyesight.
I want to get images from a camera,
from a scanner.
So what we're doing this year,
we're beefing up our application,
add two more steps.
And the first one would be the
customization of the image browser.
And for that,
I'm asking Thomas to come up on stage.
He will tell you everything
about the image problem.
So the image browser was
introduced on Leopard.
So for this presentation,
I will just start with a quick
overview to just describe
what the image browser is.
And then I will spend more time on
the new APIs related to Snow Leopard,
and especially on the
new customization APIs.
So let's start with a quick overview.
So here is the image browser.
So this is a view.
And its class name is
IK Image Browser View.
And you can use this view to display
and to browse large amount of images.
So typically this view lays out images in
a grid and users can scroll or zoom in,
zoom out to browse the content.
Also this view comes with a set
of features that you will have for
free like the graphical selection,
type select, reordering, drag and drop,
animations, all those kind of things.
You can find some examples of
use of this view on several
applications on the system,
like in the Finder, Image Capture,
Preview, the iLife Media Browser, etc.
and in some third-party
applications as well.
And you can use this
view to browse images,
so typically any kind of image
format supported by Image I/O.
You can also browse movies,
and for movies you can even
play the movies directly
in the image browser view,
which is very practical.
You can browse PDFs and in
fact you can browse any kind of
document thanks to Quick Look.
So you can browse any kind of document
natively supported by Quick Look,
like HTML pages, contacts,
notes or whatever.
But also,
if you write your own Quick Look plugin
for your own document,
then you can use the IK Image Browser
View to browse your own
document in your application.
And then how it works.
So here, just to give you the basis,
as Werner said,
the image browser uses the same
data source mechanism as the
NS TableView or NS OutlineView.
So concretely,
you implement a data source,
and its role is to provide the
images to the image browser when
the image browser requests them.
Your data source can provide
the images using file paths,
URL, NS images, CG image ref, bitmaps,
NSData as icon refs.
So there's a lot of different
ways to provide the images.
And then the image browser takes
care of calculating the thumbnails
from your images and draws them at
the correct location in the view.
The image browser was designed
to support very large datasets.
It supports hundreds
of thousands of images.
It is entirely rendered using
the GPU to offer a very smooth
scrolling and zooming experience.
And another important aspect of
Image Kit is that the image browser
manages its own cache by keeping the
last presently used images on the
GPU and automatically discard the others
to never exceed a given memory limit.
So you don't have to write any code to
keep the memory allocation constant.
The only thing you have to do is to
not cache any image on your side.
Just compute if needed and return
the images you want to display when
the image browser requests them.
So that's for the quick overview.
Now we'll have to talk about
what's new on Snow Leopard.
And the first request of developers was
to be able to customize the appearance
of the view so that it looks more
consistent with the application.
So we added new APIs in Snow Leopard
that allows you to control the rendering,
the layout and the rendering.
And I will talk about
this in a little bit.
Also, some other miscellaneous
stuffs like drop-on items.
On Leopard,
it was possible to drop something
between two cells or on the whole view.
Now it's also possible to drop
something on a given cell.
Like in the Finder, for instance,
when you drop a file in a
folder or on an application,
now you can do the same thing
with the IK Image Brother view.
Also, Image Kit now provides an
additional image representation,
that is, a PDF page representation.
And this lets you feed the image
browser with PDF pages you get from
PDF Kit or CG/PDF Document Ref.
So now let's focus on the customization.
And usually you customize
the appearance in two steps.
First, you customize the appearance
of the view itself.
And then you customize the
appearance of the cells.
So let's see the first step.
So on Snow Leopard you can now use the
methods of IK Image Browser View to
change the appearance of the background,
add some overlays,
change the margins between cells,
And you can still, of course,
change the size of the cells,
the decoration of the cells,
like if you want to
toggle on/off the shadows,
the outline, the title or subtitles.
And you can change the common font
that is shared by all the cells
to draw the title or subtitles.
So let's go more into details
for the three first ones.
So here are three new
accessories on Snow Leopard.
The first one allows you to
change the margin between cells.
The second one and third one allows
you to change the appearance of the
background and to add some overlays.
And here in set foreground layer,
the first segment of set foreground layer
and set background layer is a layer.
So that means you can set any kind of
layer here to change the appearance
of the background or the overlays.
So it can be a movie layer
or a cross composition layer.
It can be even a custom layer that you
render using the AppKit or Core Graphics.
It can be an image embedded
into a layer or whatever.
And also it's not only
limited to one layer,
but it can be a complete layer tree.
So layers with sub layers.
And to finish,
you can also add animations
to your layers if you want
your background to animate,
for instance.
So the next slide shows an example of
over-customized image browser view.
So in this example,
there is a quad composition
in the background.
And so it's a quad composition
embedded into an layer.
And in the foreground,
there is another layer that
embeds another course composition
that draws the curtains.
So this example is probably unusable,
but it illustrates quite well the fact
you can do really what you want for
the background and the foreground,
including animations, transparency,
and media like course compositions.
So now we can really customize the
background and the overlays of the view.
And then we may want to change
the appearance of the cells.
So that's the second step
of the customization.
And here we introduce in
Image Kit the concept of cell.
A cell for the image browser
is represented by the
IK ImageBrowserCell class.
An IK ImageBrowserCell is quite similar
to an NSCell in the way it handles
all drawing operations for your cell.
However, the way it renders things is
very different than NSCell.
The ImageBrowser renders
everything using the GPU,
so it's not possible for you to add some
drawing code based on Core Graphics or
the AppKit to draw the things you want.
So instead of overriding your
draw method where you will draw
everything using the AppKit,
instead of that,
your custom cell provides layers.
Layers have several
advantages in comparison to
the traditional NSL approach.
First, layers are rendered using the GPU,
which is much better on a
performance point of view.
Then you can associate
animations to layers,
which is more practical if
you want to animate something.
It is really easy to embed
medias like movies or cross
compositions in your layers.
And to finish,
you can still use the App Kit or
Core Graphics to do everything
you want in your custom layer.
So you still have the convenience
and flexibility of high-level
APIs like the App Kit,
but you also take benefit of the GPU.
Now let's see how to
implement a custom cell.
So here, our API is quite close to
the NS Collection View API.
So the first thing you have to do
is to override-- is to a subclass,
sorry,
the IK ImageBrowserView and implement
the method newCellForRepresentedEtem.
And this is where you return a
new instance of your custom cell.
And your custom cell must be a
subclass of IK ImageBrowserCell,
of the IK ImageBrowserCell class.
And so by doing this,
the image browser will use
the instance of your custom
class to represent graphically
the data source item and item.
So now we have our custom cell in place,
let's see how we can
impact the appearance.
So here is the default appearance
of a cell in the IK Metros overview.
And the cell is in fact
made of several components.
There is the thumbnail,
a cell of course has a thumbnail.
A cell can have a selection, a title,
and a subtitle.
And the first thing we can do to
modify the appearance of a cell is to
modify the layout of those components.
So here is a schematic view
of the same cell that shows
each frame of each component.
So the image frame is the frame
where the image will be drawn,
the selection frame is the
frame of the selection,
the title frame is the
frame of the title,
and so on.
And if we look at the header
of IK ImageBrowserCell,
all those frames are
defined by the method here.
And Accept Frame,
which defines the whole frame of the
cell that includes all the other frames.
You can override any
of these methods here.
So Image Container Frame is the frame
that will contain the thumbnail.
Image Alignment is how the thumbnail
is aligned in the container.
Image Frame is the frame calculated
from the Image Container Frame that
takes into account the aspect ratio of
the thumbnail plus the image alignment.
the selection from the
from the selection,
et cetera.
And so by just overriding
some of these methods,
we can easily turn
this to look into this.
And so having our cell to finally looks
like this in the image browser view.
So that's how to modify the layout.
Now you may want to change
how the cells render itself.
So again,
here is the appearance of a cell.
And you can imagine the fact that
a cell is made of several layers
that can be decomposed like this.
So a cell has a background
layer that is empty by default,
so it just draws nothing.
It has a selection layer that is
drawn only when the cell is selected.
It has a placeholder layer
which is drawn only when the
thumbnail is not calculated yet.
There is a thumbnail, of course,
a title and a subtitle,
and the foreground layer
that is empty by default.
And so now on Snow Leopard,
you can replace any of these layers.
You can change the
appearance of the background,
the selection, the placeholder,
and the foreground layer.
And to do this,
You have to implement in your
custom cell the method LayerForType.
And this is where you return the layer
or layer tree you want for a given type.
So for instance,
if you want to change the
appearance of the placeholder,
implement LayerForType
in your custom cell.
And when the type is
IK ImageBrowserCellPlaceholderLayer,
return the layer you want.
So for instance, if I do this,
if I return a white wounded square
when the type is a background layer,
this will change the appearance of my
background layer to look like this.
Same thing if I return a
slightly transparent pink and
wounded layer for the selection,
it will change the appearance
of my selection like this.
Then I can also embed
an image in a layer.
If I want to add a kind of
glossy overlay to my cell,
I can return a layer that
embeds a kind of glossy image.
This will modify the foreground
layer to look like this.
And to finish,
we can still use the methods of
the IK Image Browser view to change
the font size and the font color
of the title and the subtitle.
And so by doing all of these changes,
our cell finally looks like this.
and when it's not selected
to look like this.
So in Snow Leopard,
now you have methods to change
the appearance of the background
and the foreground of the view,
to re-change the layout and
the rendering of the cells.
And so you can, as an example,
change the appearance of the
default appearance here to
look into something like this.
And this is what I'm going to illustrate
now with the demo application.
Can we switch to the demo machine,
please?
OK.
So first, I start with the end of the
step six we made last year.
So last year, the last step of our
applications was that.
And now we want to change the appearance
of the image browser a little bit.
And the first step,
the first thing I will do,
is change the appearance
of the background.
And let's say I want to draw
an image in the background
instead of a flat white color.
And so what I have to do is
to first fix the typo here.
And then I have to use the
method setBackgroundLayer of
the IK image browser view.
And this is where I set a layer.
And my layer is allocated here.
- So it's a custom layer.
It's class is
ImageBrowserBackgroundLayer.
So I locate an instance here and
I set the background layer here.
And if we look at the interface
of ImageBrowserBackgroundLayer,
An image browser background layer
here is just a subclass of a
CA layer because it's a custom layer.
And its implementation is very easy.
So I just override drawing context.
This is the usual way to
implement a custom layer.
And this is where I will draw an image,
typically an image that looks like this.
So there is an image in my project.
I load that image and I draw
it several times using the,
here I use Core Graphics,
but you could use the AppKit.
So I get the width of my image,
the height of my image,
and I draw it several times in my
layer so that it fills my layer.
So now if I run the
same application again,
now the background of
my view looks like this.
The view of course is still functional.
Can still zoom in, zoom out.
But as you can see,
now the titles are not
really readable anymore,
so I want to change the
appearance of the cells.
So this is what I call the
second step of the customization.
And as I said,
the first thing you have to do is to
subclass the IK image browser view.
Here my subclass is image browser view.
And you have to implement the method
new cell for represented item.
And this is where you return a
new instance of your custom cell.
In here,
my custom cell is an image browser cell.
So if we look at the interface
of image browser cell,
An image browser cell is simply a
subclass of IK image browser cell.
And if we look at the implementation,
I implement layer for type.
And in this example,
I return custom layers for
any type because I customize
a placeholder layer here,
the foreground layer here,
the selection layer.
and the background layer.
So let's see just one,
which is the foreground layer,
for instance.
In my project,
I also have two other images,
which is a kind of-- it's not visible,
but it's a kind of glossy overlay.
So there is also a pin image here.
And then what I want to do is to
add a glossy overlay plus a pin
image as another overlay to my cell.
So what I have to do here is to
allocate a first layer and then
allocate two other layers that I,
and I add those two other layers as
the sub layers of my first layer.
So here is my first layer.
I create a glossy layer here where I set
an image as a content of my glossy layer.
And I add my glossy layer as
a sub layer of the main layer.
And same thing for the pin image.
I allocate a new layer, set the content,
set a pin image as the
content of the pin layer.
And finally, add the pin layer as a sub
layer of my main layer.
So my main layer here has two sub layers,
which are a glossy image and a pin image.
And if I run it again now,
My custom cell looks like this,
so it's really completely different.
The selection is different as well
because it's another custom layer.
And the view is of
course still functional.
You can still reorder
things or search for images,
etc.
Everything is still functional.
Okay, so that's for demo.
Can we switch back to the slides?
And I directly pass back to Werner
to the rest of the presentation.
Thank you.
Now that we saw it's very simple to
customize the image browser view,
let's go back to our request number two,
and that was really importing the images.
As we saw,
we can do that with the eyesight,
but actually there are
more devices out there,
like cameras or iPhones and scanners.
What about these devices?
How do we get images from there into our
image browser view into our application?
Well,
we have and had that for a long time,
the Image Capture Framework.
Image Capture Framework is
part of the Carbon Framework.
It has a C API.
And it was redesigned to do
synchronous and asynchronous calls.
It's kind of bad that you
have to know about this
synchronous/asynchronous behavior,
because ideally you would just use
it and have a simple way to go to
the images from a scanner or camera.
So a lot of people were
struggling with the API.
And so we said for Snow Leopard,
we actually want to do something new.
We want to have a new framework,
Image Capture Core.
And we pass over to Baskaran to
introduce this new framework.
Image Capture Core is a new
framework for Snow Leopard and
It's the foundation for applications
that use cameras and scanners.
And it is buzzword compliant.
It's 100% pure Cocoa, 64-bit,
garbage collected.
And it is Cocoa bindings friendly.
makes it easy to create UI using
Interface Builder and bind directly
to the objects from this framework.
And it uses delegation to manage
asynchronous communication with devices.
I want to emphasize this aspect
of communicating with devices.
Cameras and scanners can be
slow to respond and maybe busy,
maybe in a state that you
need to recover from before it
can respond to your request.
So trying to communicate with them in
a synchronous way is not a good way
of doing it because it can block your
application until the device responds.
And, um,
For example,
let's say that you want to download
a large file from the camera.
And if you call it synchronously,
the download call will return only
after the entire download completes,
which you may not want to do.
You may want to issue a request
to download and then be notified
later when the download is complete.
The other situation is that devices
may have some state information
that it may want to report to
that application that you have.
For example,
when you try to scan from a scanner,
it may want to report to you that there
is no document to scan in the feeder.
And to handle that, you need some kind of
a delegation mechanism,
and that's what we
have in this framework.
All requests to the devices
are handled asynchronously,
and you handle the responses
back using delegate methods.
The main components in the
Image Capture Core framework
There are two main components.
One is the device browser that allows
you to browse for image capture devices.
And you can browse for
cameras and scanners.
And in this case,
when you browse for cameras,
it will deliver you a
camera if it finds one.
Or you can just browse for scanners
and then you'll find only the scanners.
Or you can browse for both.
And the browser is represented
by the IC device browser class.
Since you need delegation,
you need to have a delegate
assigned to each of the classes
in the image capture core.
And we use properties,
Objective-C2 properties,
throughout our framework so
it is easy to write your code.
You assign a delegate, and then--
You actually first create it
and then assign it to Legit.
And then you can use one of these
three methods to start browsing.
You can browse for all of them or
just for cameras or for scanners.
Then when you have found what you want,
you can stop browsing.
And the delegate methods that you need
to implement in your delegate in order
to receive the devices reported by the
browser or if the devices are removed,
they are here.
So did add device will tell you
when there is a device and did
remove device will report to you
if the device has been turned off.
Okay, let's look at the device.
The IC device is an abstract base
class representation of a device,
a camera or a scanner.
And the camera device and scanner
device both share several properties
that are represented in the base class.
For example, the type tells you whether
it's a camera or a scanner,
the name of the device,
an icon representation for the device,
and whether there is a session
open on the device or not.
And also you can request
to open a session on the
device or to close a session.
The camera device has some
additional properties.
For example, the contents of the camera.
That contents property will give
you a hierarchical representation
of the folders and files.
[Transcript missing]
The device and the camera device
both have some delegate methods
that you need to implement
if you are going to use them.
For example, you may want to know when
the device is removed.
So you definitely want to
implement that did remove device.
And also when you open a session,
when the session open is complete,
you will be called back
with a did open session.
And when the device is ready,
you will be called with
that device to become ready.
And that call will come to you for camera
device when the framework has completely
cataloged the contents of the camera.
For the scanner,
when it has identified all the
functional units on the scanner.
And in addition for a camera device,
if you are taking a
picture in a tethered mode,
you'll be called with the add
item any time a picture arrives.
And if you delete,
you'll be notified about that as well.
Let's look at the demo.
This demo is available
download for you to look at.
There is very little
code written in this.
Most of what you see is
done using Cocoa bindings.
And I'm going to show you the little
piece of code that I have here.
When the application launches,
I'm creating an instance
of the device browser.
I started out as a developer,
signing myself as a delegate,
and started browsing for cameras.
The browser finds a device.
It's going to call--
With this did add device delegate method,
and at that point what I'm
doing is checking to see if
it's a camera device and then
assigning to my instance variable,
which is an array.
I'm adding the device.
And if the device is removed,
I'm doing the reverse of that.
That's about all the code I have here.
And let me just show...
I just turned on the other camera.
So I have two devices.
One is a card reader,
another is a camera.
And let me select that.
So I open the session and then
when it finds the contents and
the camera contents are available,
the bindings automatically populate
the content in that table view.
So all the columns in the table view
are bound to properties of the camera
device and it's automatically populated.
There is no line of code written in
the application itself to do that.
And for example, if I now take a picture,
get added.
and I believe you can
delete them as well.
So let me just quickly look at-- Let's
quickly look at the binding here.
So I have a camera array,
which is an instance
variable of my project here,
the class in the controller class.
And I am getting the camera's
controller for that array and
getting the icon property,
which is the property of the device,
IC device.
And of course, it is a CG image ref,
so I have a little transformer that
transforms CG image ref into NS image so
that it can be directly rendered here.
And then I'm getting the name
directly from the device.
And then this is another array,
which is a media files array controller.
And I'm getting the name of the,
the thumbnail of the object, name, name.
And width, height, and so on.
So these are all directly bound.
There's no line of code in the sources.
And in fact, even--
These are directly bound.
So I'm sending, not that one,
this one is directly bound.
I'm sending a request take picture,
which is part of the method
in the camera device.
Okay.
Let's go back to the slides.
I'll just quickly go over
the scanner side of it.
We have a scanner device,
which is a subclass of an IC device.
The scanners have different functional
units like a flatbed or a document
feeder or a transparency unit.
So the scanner device class has
properties that tells you about
available functional units.
And the selected functional unit.
By default, one of the units is selected
by the device module,
which is actually
communicating the device,
and that's the one that is going
to be shown here as a selected one.
And then you can transfer your scans
using either files or in memory that
you can set in the transfer mode.
And if you're transferring
to your file system,
then you would set your downloads
directory using that property.
Then you can switch between
different functional units using
the request select functional unit.
And to do the overview scan,
you can do request overview scan,
and you can do the scan
using the request scan.
If you notice,
all the methods have a request prefix.
It is just to make clear
that none of them are going
to be acting synchronously.
Everything requires a delegate
method when it is done.
You need to have a delegate method
in your class to be notified
when the request is completed.
Let's look at the functional units here.
That's the main part of the scanner.
The functional unit has several
properties that are common,
whether it is a flatbed
transparency or a document feeder.
The first one is a type and supported
bit depths and the current bit depth,
supported resolutions,
the current resolution,
the area which will be scanned,
and then an overview image that
when you do an overview scan,
that image will be updated.
As the scanner sends the overview data.
And the flatbed unit has, in addition,
a physical size that
tells you the platen size.
And the same is true for
the transparency unit.
In addition,
transparency unit also tells you what
film types it supports and also the
current film type that it is set to use.
And for the document feeder, it can,
document feeder may be able to
scan different sizes of documents.
That is reported to you
on the supported site.
and size tells us the current size.
And the scanner device delegate protocol,
this is the device delegate, if you,
your device delegate for the scanner need
to implement these methods in order to
successfully interact with the scanner.
And when you select a functional unit,
you would get called back and select
functional unit when it is done.
And when you scan to a file,
then you will be reported
about the location of the file
using the DIT scan to URL,
or if you scan to memory,
then it will be returned
in the data as an NSData.
Let's quickly look at the demo of this.
When the application launches,
I do exactly what I did in the camera.
I create a browser,
set a delegate for it,
and then here I start
browsing for scanners.
And I'm going to show you
the rest of the thing.
The code here is almost
the same as in the camera,
but I'm going to show you
something in the nib file where
The overview scan is directly bound
to the overview image property.
I mean, the NSImage view is directly
bound to the overview image
property of the functional unit.
And this progress indicator is bound
to the scan progress percent done
property of the functional unit.
And you'll see that without
writing a single line of code,
you can do an overview scan and get the
progress indicator at the same time.
So here's a scanner.
I'm going to open a session.
This scanner only has a flatbed.
This area is blank,
left as an exercise for you to fill in.
And now I'm going to do an overview.
I think the scanner needs to warm up.
Okay.
This you get for free
by using Cocoa Binding.
And when I do a scan,
let me just show you where
the code that's called when
I click on the scan button.
When I do a start scan,
I get the scanner from my controller.
I'm getting the functional
unit of the scanner.
And then I am checking to see for
what type of scanner it is because
I want to do something different
depending upon the type of,
I mean,
what type of functional unit it is.
If it is not a document feeder,
I want to scan a specific area.
So I'm setting its
measurement unit to inches.
And if it is a flatbed,
I want to scan the whole
Physical size.
I'm taking the size and then setting the
scan area to be the full platen size.
And then I'm setting the
resolution to be picking up
from the supported resolutions,
a resolution that is greater
than or equal to 100,
100 dpi,
and setting that as a current resolution.
And setting the bit depth,
pixel data type as RGB.
It's file based.
I want to transfer to my pictures folder.
And the document name, scan,
as the name of the document.
I want it as a JPEG data.
So when I do the scan,
it will scan and save it in my
pictures folder as scan.jpg.
It actually automatically renamed it as
Scan 1 because there was a name conflict.
So that's the scan.
It just completed.
I guess that completes the
introduction to the Image Capture Core.
Werner will take over from
me and show some work.
Well, thanks a lot for that.
And I guess everyone who had to use the
old image capture framework will really
appreciate the new Objective-C based one.
It's very, very easy to use.
So now the question is,
what can we do in Image Kit to use
the image capture core framework?
Well, what you want to do is
introduce a couple of classes,
new classes,
that make it even easier for you to
use scanner support and camera support.
If we look at the main classes of
the image capture core framework,
we have the device browser
and the main devices,
the scanner and camera.
And what we want to do inside
Image Kit is we want to
have view classes for those.
If we look at the first one
for the device browsing,
We have an IK device browser view that
goes nicely with an IC device browser.
and it's used for browsing devices.
Well, it allows for customization.
For example,
you could specify very easily,
I want to display, look only for cameras,
only for scanners,
do it only for local devices
or network shared devices.
And it comes in a couple of UI flavors.
For example, you could say I want
to have a table view,
an icon view, which is of course an
IK image browser view.
And the nice thing overall is we do
have an interface builder plug-in.
So all you do is an interface builder,
drag it over and you can directly use it.
The class itself has a delegate
and the delegate gets called
whenever a selection changes or
when a device reports an error.
You can have a couple of
booleans as properties that you
can specify what to look for.
If you want to do it in code,
you could do that, or as I said before,
you could directly do it
in interface building.
Then the display mode you can
specify and you can always query
for the current selected device.
For the camera,
we have the iK Camera Device View that
works together with an iC Camera Device.
And again,
we have a couple of UI flavors.
Now,
we have a list view and we do a couple
of things that you do not get immediately
free by just using the bindings.
For example, we do auto rotate the icon.
So depending on the EXIF information
that you will have on the image,
you will rotate it correctly.
And we also try to interpret
a couple of the metadata.
For example, internally,
a flash property in EXIF would
be one of the values 1 up to 15,
indicating the flash fired,
it did not fire,
it did fire in automatic mode,
it did fire so and so.
So we put that into like a human
readable string and display that.
And in the icon view,
we again use an IK Image browser
view where you can select the images
to download and all these things.
You can customize it by
specifying a couple of properties.
For example,
you could have a download folder pop up.
and the Post Processing App, Popup.
Another thing that could
be useful to customize is,
for example, if you're writing an
application like Preview.
Preview has currently an
import image menu item and it
brings up the old common UI.
And there, if you do not want to have the
download on the button label,
but maybe import or import all.
And again, the nice thing,
all this can be done by just using
an interface builder palette.
If you want to do it in code, yes,
you can do it.
It's very simple.
You need, again,
a delegate and the camera device.
The camera device could also be set
directly from the device browser view.
We have the different display modes,
the label for downloading,
and a couple of downloads related,
like whether to display
or hide different pop-ups.
And a couple of can-dos
that would allow you to,
for example,
have a toolbar that would rotate left,
rotate right.
And because these are some of the actions
that we do have for the device view.
We can delete the selected items,
you can download all or
just the selected ones.
Then you get notified by just querying
or binding to the selected indexes.
And you have a couple
of delegate methods.
For example,
when you did download an image,
From the camera, then you get notified,
oh, this one is downloaded to this URL.
Or if you specify as transfer mode,
do it in memory,
then you will get past the NSData.
Usually, getting the images in memory is
not always a good idea because the
images are getting larger and larger,
SD cards larger.
So if the user on an 18 gigabyte or
64 gigabyte flash card or an iPod,
you would download all the images.
You don't want to do that in memory.
Let me do a quick demo.
And actually, this demo is a demo
without writing any code.
Because all we want to do--
is just fire up Interface Builder,
create an empty window,
And if we display the library,
then you will notice we
have a device browser view.
I can just drag over.
I use a camera view,
just right next to it.
Then all I have to do is make the
delegate of the device browser view,
make that the camera view.
Then hit run.
Then I should be able to just--
Select this and without writing any code,
you get full functionality.
So you can switch between the two.
You see, for example,
we have the shutter speed in
a kind of human readable form,
not in whatever, 0.025 or whatever.
We get the maker model ISO,
as I mentioned before,
the flash information and all that.
To that,
it does a lot of things through bindings,
like the number of selected items,
all that is done internally
through bindings and automatically.
And I could download all or
download the selected ones.
So this is without
writing any line of code.
We can go back to the slides.
Now, what do we have for scanners?
Well, obviously an IK scanner device view
that works with an IC scanner device.
Here again,
we do have a couple of UI flavors.
Well, we do have a simple mode.
This is pretty new because in the past,
image capture as application did
not have a simple way to do a scan.
Because there you always have
an advanced mode where you
have to have a lot of pop-ups,
a lot of edit fields,
you have to specify a lot
and the download for the
post-processing application,
the resolution and all that.
And here again we want
to do some customization,
so give you the option, for example,
to show or hide the download destination
or the post-processing application.
So they may go away or show up.
Overall,
that view is really highly dynamic,
so depending on the
scanner that you connect,
you may get a slightly different UI.
For example,
if a scanner supports multiple
resolution in a range,
let's say from 50 dpi through 4800 dpi,
then we would very likely
display that in a combo box.
There are scanners out there that
have only a fixed resolution or
only a fixed set of resolutions.
That could be a very small number,
like 50, 70, 100, 150, and 300,
so a couple of values only.
In that case, you would have a pop-up.
There are scanners that
do not support scaling,
so then the scaling
and the new size thing,
they would just not show up.
And for customization,
the next thing would be
really we could have,
again, relabeling the scan,
the overview and scan things.
And here again we have an interface
builder plugin to do that.
If you want to do it in code,
what you need for the device view is
again a delegate and scanner device.
You specify the display mode, the label.
You have to implement
a couple of callbacks,
delegate methods.
And you have a couple of properties
where you can query or set
basically some default behavior.
For example,
you could specify always download
to the My Picture directory
in my user home folder.
And that's about it.
So let's go back to the demo machine.
And--
I'm actually going to quit Interface
Builder and go to our application,
our iPhoto application.
And I want to show you,
let's quickly run it and
then I'll show you what...
I have to do in code.
Well, first of all,
all we did was adding an extra
item in the toolbar that would
bring up an image capture UI.
This image capture UI has on
its side a device browser view.
On the right side,
it does not have a single view because
if we would have just the camera view,
then it wouldn't do any
good if I select a scanner.
And if I had a scanner view,
it wouldn't do any good for a camera.
So we do have a view that switches
between-- so it's a tap view,
basically, switching between camera
and scanner views.
And here you see like the old behavior,
very similar to image
capture application.
So you could very easily
do an overview scan,
then select an area and do a scan.
I think that's not that interesting.
More interesting is
this one because it's,
again, the simple case.
And if I do a scan,
then what happens is we
should do an overview scan.
So very nicely you get that.
And it detects the
areas and moves it over.
And scans the image.
So it scans the image and
actually does the right rotation.
So the result of this should
be in our picture folder.
So it's adding up.
And you see I'm scanning
as TIFF in this case.
So it's now doing the last scan.
and so this one is straightened and
they're all straightened so that's
the area detection and all that.
So just to show you.
Very quickly,
how it behaves if the objects that
you throw up are not rectangular and
May look a little bit different.
Let me quickly show you
how we would handle that.
So in that case, again,
we try to do the best,
detect the overlapping areas and move the
images over and then do individual scans.
And then you are free to handle
and post-process these images.
OK, can we go back to the slides, please?
And we are done with the session.
So all I can say is we have a
lab tomorrow morning at 10:30.
If you have any questions
related to Image Kit,
Image Capture,
please come and bug us and ask us.
And if you have no chance to
attend the lab and have questions,
please send an email to Alan.